you
this lecture is about probabilistic
topic models for topic mining and
analysis in this lecture we're going to
continue talking about the top of the
mining and analysis we're going to
introduce probabilistic atomic models so
this is a slide that you have seen
earlier and where we discussed the
problems with using a term as a topic so
to solve these problems intuitively we
need to use more words to describe a
topic and this would address the problem
of lack of expressive power when we have
more words that we can use to describe
the topic of we can describe a
complicated topics to address the second
problem we need introduced weights on
words this would allow the
distinguishing subtle differences in
topics and in to introduce semantically
related words in a fuzzy manner
finally to solve the problem of water
ambiguity we need to split an ambiguous
word so that we can design the great
it's topic it turns out that but all
these can be done by using a proper risk
with hopping model and that's why we're
going to spend a lot of lectures to talk
about this topic so the basic idea here
is improve the representation of topic
as a word distribution so what you see
now is the old written dating where we
represent each topic with just one word
or one term or one phrase but now we're
going to use a word distribution to
describe the topic so here you see that
for sports we're going to use a word
distributing over theoretical speaking
all the words in our vocabulary so for
example the high probability words here
are sports game basketball football play
star etc these are sports redditor terms
and of course it would also give a
nonzero probability to some other world
like travel which might be related to
sports but in general not so much
related
topic in general we can imagine a
nonzero probability for all the words
and some words that are not relevant
would have very very small probabilities
and these probabilities was something 1
so that it forms a distribution of all
the world now intuitively this
distribution represents a topic in that
if we assemble words from the
distribution we tend to see words that
are ready to the sports you can also see
as a very special case if the
probability the mass is concentrated in
China of just one word needs a sports
and this basically degenerates to the
simple recommendation of topical with
just one word but as a distribution this
topical representation can in general
involve many words to describe a topic
and can model subtle differences in
semantics of a topic similarly we can
model travel and science with their
respective distributions so in the
distribution for travel we see top words
like attraction trip or flight hotel et
cetera
whereas in science will see scientist
spaceship Telescope of genomics and
neuroscience relate returns now that
doesn't mean sports ability terms where
necessary have 0 probabilities for
science in general we can imagine all
these words we have nonzero
probabilities it's just that for a
particular topic of some words we have
very very small probabilities now you
can also see there are some words that
are shared by these topics well when I
say share it just means even with some
probability threshold you can still see
one word to occur in multiple topics in
this case I marked them in black so you
can see travel for example occurred in
all the three topics here but was
different the probabilities it has the
highest probability for the travel topic
0.05 but with much smaller probabilities
for sports and science which makes a
sense
and similarly you can see star also
occurred in sports and science with
reasonably high probabilities because
they might be actually related to the
two topics
so with this replenishing it addresses
the three problems that mentioned
earlier first it now uses multiple words
to describe a topic so it allows us to
describe a very complicated topics
second it assigns weights to terms so
now we can model several differences of
semantics and we can bring in related
words together to model topic sir
because we have probabilities for the
same word in different topics we can
descend be great the sense of word in
the text to decode its underlying topic
so address all these three problems with
this new way of representing a topic so
now of course our problem definition has
been refined that just a slightly the
slide is very similar to what you have
seen before except that we have added a
refinement for what the topic is so now
each topic is a word distribution and
for each word distribution we know that
all the probabilities should sum to one
over all the words in the vocabulary so
you see a constraint here and we still
have another constraint on the topic
coverage namely PI's so all the pub PI
sub IJ s must sum to one for the same
document so how do we solve this problem
well let's look at this problem as a
computation problem now and so we
clearly specifies the input and output
and illustrated here on this side the
input of course is our text data C is a
collection but we also generally assume
we know the number of topics cake are we
hypothesis a number and then try to mind
K topics even though we don't know the
exact topics that exist in the
connection and V is the vocabulary set
as a set of words that determines what
units would be treated as the basic
units for analysis in most cases when
use words
as the basis for analysis and that means
each war is a unit now the output would
consist of as first a set of topics
represented by Athena eyes Ichi is a
water distribution and we also want to
know the coverage of topics in each
document so this that's the same PI I
J's that we have seen before so given a
set of text that we would like to
compute all these distributions and all
these coverages as you'll have seen on
this slide now of course there may be
many different ways of solving this
problem indeed you can write a high risk
program to solve this problem now here
we're going to introduce a general way
of solving this problem called a
generative model and this is in fact a
very general idea and it's a principal
way of using statistical modeling to
solve text mining problems here item
that the picture that we have seen
before in order to show the generation
process so the idea of this approach is
actually to first design a model for our
data so we design a probabilistic model
to model how the data are generated of
course this is based on our assumption
the actual data aren't necessarily
generating this way so that would give
us a probability distribution of the
data that you are seeing on this slide
given a particular model and parameters
that are denoted by lambda so this
temporal M law actually consists of all
the parameters that were interesting and
these parameters in general would
control the behavior of the
probabilistic model meaning that if you
set these parameters to different values
and it will give some data points higher
probabilities there others now in this
case of course for our text mining
problem or more precisely a topic mining
problem we have the following premise
first we have C dies which is a word
distribution and then we have a set of
PI's for each document
since we have n documents so we have n
sets of PI's and each step or the pyah
pyah values was something 1 so this is
to say that we first pretend we already
have these word distributions and the
coverage numbers and then we're going to
see how we can generate data by using
such distributions and so how do we
model the data in this way and we assume
that there are actual samples drawn from
such a model that depends on these
parameters now one interesting question
here is to think about how many
parameters are there in total now
obviously we can already see n x k
parameters for PI's we also see kc dies
but each STI is there to a set of
probability values right it's a
distributing over words so I leave this
as an exercise for you to figure out
exactly how many parameters there are
here now once we set up at the model
then we can fit the model to our data
meaning that we can estimate the
parameters or infer the parameters based
on the data in other words we would like
to adjust these parameter values until
we give our data set the maximum
probability I just to say that depending
on the parameter values some data points
we have higher probabilities than others
what we are interested in here is what
parameter values will give our data set
the highest probability so I also
illustrated through the problem with a
picture that you see here on the x-axis
I just illustrate the lambda the
parameters as one dimensional variable
it's oversimplification obviously but in
surfaces to show the idea and the y-axis
shows the probability of the data
observed this probability obviously
depends on the setting of lambda so
that's why it varies as you change the
value of lambda what we were interested
in here is refine the lambda star
that would maximize the probability of
the observed data so this would be then
our estimate of the parameters and these
parameters note that are precisely what
we hope to discover from text data so we
treat these parameters as after the
outcome or the output of the data mining
algorithm so this is the general idea of
using a generative model for text mining
first we design a model with some
parameters that we are interested in and
then we model that they now adjust to
the parameters to fit the data as well
as we can after we have Fitness data
then we will recover some parameter
values we'll get the specific of
parameter values and those will be the
output of the algorithm and we treat
those as actually the discovered
knowledge from text data by varying the
model of course we can discover
different knowledge so to summarize we
introduced a new way of representing
topic namely represented as a water
distribution and this has the advantage
of using multiple words to describe a
complicated topic it also allows us to
assign weights on words so we have
models of those variations of semantics
we talked about the task of topic mining
and analysis when we define a topic as a
distribution so the input is a
collection of text articles the number
of topics and material set and the
output is a set of topics each is a word
distribution and also the coverage of
all the topics in each document and
these are formally represented by theta
eyes and pi eyes and we have two
constraints here for these parameters
the first is the constraint on the word
distributions in each water distribution
the probabilities on all the words must
sum to one over all the words in the
vocabulary the second constraint is on
the topic coverage in each document a
document is not allowed recover a
topical outside the set of topics that
we are discovering so the coverage of
each of the knees
topics with someone for a document we
also introduced a general idea of using
a generative model for text mining and
the idea here is to first design a model
to model the generation of data we
simply assume that there are generating
in this way and inside the model we're
embarrassin parameters that were
interested in denoted by Lemna and then
we can infer the most likely parameter
values that must are given a particular
data set and we can then take the lambda
star as knowledge discovered from the
text for our problem and we had just the
design of the model and the parameters
with this car this discovered various
kinds of knowledge from text as you are
seeing later in the other lectures